# Log

Â 

The **Log** window shows the history of a versioned file or directory
('entry'). A Log is typically invoked via **Query\|Log** from the
[Project Window](Project-Window.md#ProjectWindow-project-window) , but
there are several other ways to open the Log window in SmartSVN.

The central component of the **Log** window is the **Revisions** table,
which shows the found revisions together with their attributes. You can
filter out certain revisions by using the **Revision Filter** field on
the top right of the **Revisions** table. To the right of the
**Revisions** table, the detailed **Revision Info** of the currently
selected revision is displayed.

The lower part of the window shows the **Directories/Files** view for
the selected revision. The displayed structure is restricted to the
files and directories that are children of the *log context root*; all
other files/directories which have been modified within this revision
are skipped.

The *log context root* depends on the context from which the log has
been invoked. For example, the log context root for logs performed by
**Query\|Log** from the [Project Window](Project-Window.md#ProjectWindow-project-window) is
either the corresponding project root directory, or the
[Externals](Externals.md#Externals-commands.externals) root
directory.


#### Note
>
>
>For repositories in Subversion 1.6 format, the received log data
>contains information on whether a changed entry is of file or directory
>type. Unfortunately this information is not present for older servers,
>hence SmartSVN tries to detect the entry types itself. The more log
>information is present, the better the results of this detection
>process. However, without complete log information SmartSVN may still be
>wrong. In this case, the entry is assumed to be a file (although it
>might actually be a directory).
>
>

If *merged* revisions are loaded via **Log\|Load Merged Revisions**,
they are added in a tree-like manner to their parent revision, which can
then be *expanded* or *collapsed*. Because merged revisions have no
direct link to the logged revisions themselves, various commands
subsequently listed will not be applicable for these revisions. The
context root for merged revisions is the corresponding repository root.

At all times, exactly one of the four views is 'active', which is
indicated by its highlighted tab title. Menu and toolbar actions are
always performed on the currently active view.

## Log menu

Use **Load Properties** to fetch all properties for all displayed
revisions from the repository (only available for files). The
**Revisions** table will be extended by corresponding table columns, one
for each property. This command is only available for file Logs. The
upper limit of columns to be added can be configured through the [system properties](Advanced-Settings.md#AdvancedSettings-advanced-settings.system-properties)
.

Use **Load Merged Revisions** to load the originating revisions for
revisions that have been merged. This option recursively descends into
merged revisions and, depending on the number of merges that have
affected the file/directory, this may cause a large or even huge number
of revisions to be loaded.

## View menu

Select **Skip Unchanged Revisions** to skip revisions for which the
logged entry has not actually been changed, but has only been reported
due to a copy operation of one of its parents. For example, when
creating a
[Tag](Tags-and-Branches.md#TagsandBranches-commands.tags) of
the project root, the log for every entry of that tag will contain this
tag-revision.

Select **Stop for Copied Revisions** to stop logging once a revision is
encountered for which the logged entry itself has been copied.

Select **Show Files Recursively** to toggle recursive file listing in
the **Files** view. If the file listing is recursive, the **Files** view
will display not only all files in the directory selected in the
**Directories** view, but also all files in subdirectories of the
selected directory.

Select **Show Only Entries Below Selected Directory** to restrict the
**Directories/Files** view to only those directories and files which are
actually children of the logged directory (only available for
directories).

## Modify menu

Use **Change Commit Message** to edit the commit message of the selected
revision. Note that this functionality requires certain server-side
hooks to be present and hence might not work.

Use **Merge Revision** to merge the selected revision to your working
copy. **Merge Revision** will only be available if the logged branch is
different from your working copy branch.

Use **Rollback Revision** to rollback the selected revision to your
working copy. **Rollback Revision** will "reverse merge" the selected
revision and possibly result in conflicts. After resolving these
possible conflicts you may commit the rollback. Be sure to use a
meaningful commit message which should probably mention something like
"Rollback of revision #...".

## File Export

You can export log data in various formats to a file using **Log\|Export
to File**.

Select either to export **All revisions**, independent of the selection
or only the **Selected revisions**. Specify the **Output File** to which
the log information will be written. If **Include changed paths** is
selected, not only the main revision information but also the details on
which files/directories have been changed will be exported.

Specify the file **Format** which shall be used for the export. **XML**
will export in raw XML format, as used by `svn log --xml`. **HTML** will
give a basic *HTML* output. **Plain text** will give a simply formatted
plain text file. **Custom** maybe used to export in an arbitrary format,
by performing a style sheet transformation on the raw XML data. In this
case, enter the path of the stylesheet for **XSLT-File**.
